[solarmax] Initial contribution (#10414)
openhab/openhab-addons: bundles/org.openhab.binding.solarmax/README.md

# SolarMax Binding

This binding supports SolarMax PV inverters.

## Supported Things

This binding only has a single `inverter` thing that can be added manually.
The SolarMax MT Series is supported (tested with 8MT2 devices).

## Discovery

Auto-discovery is currently not available.

## Thing Configuration

Each inverter requires the following configuration parameters:

| parameter       | required | default | description                                                          |
| --------------- | -------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| host            | yes      |         | hostname or IP address of the inverter                               |
| port            | no       | 12345   | Port number to connect to. This should be `12345` for most inverters |
| refreshInterval | no       | 15      | Interval (in seconds) to refresh the channel values.                 |

## Channels

| channel                  | type     | description                                            |
| ------------------------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |

> | lastUpdated              | DateTime | Time when data was last read from the device           |

Reviewer: The type must be for example `Number:Temperature`.

Author: Updated

| softwareVersion          | Point    | Software Version installed on the SolarMax device      |

> | buildNumber              | Point    | Firmware Build Number installed on the SolarMax device |

Reviewer: These seem rather properties than Channels.

Author: I currently have no time to read into what would need to be changed, make the change and test it. Since it currently works as required, I hope it's okay if we put it in the backlog for next time.

Reviewer: Changing these to properties would be a breaking change, once released. If you don't have the time to take a look into this, you could remove them for now and add them in a future release.

Author: So I had a crack at this and it seems to be working now returning these values as properties.

| startups                 | Point    | Number of times the device has started                 |
| acPhase1Current          | Point    | Ac Phase 1 Current in Amps                             |
| acPhase2Current          | Point    | Ac Phase 2 Current in Amps                             |
| acPhase3Current          | Point    | Ac Phase 3 Current in Amps                             |

> | energyGeneratedToday     | Point    | Energy Generated Today in wH                           |

Reviewer: Please check all.
```suggestion
| energyGeneratedToday     | Point    | Energy Generated Today in Wh                           |
```

Author: Updated

| heatSinkTemperature      | Number:Temperature       | Heat Sink Temperature in degrees celcius     |

### SolarMax Commands

During the implementation the SolarMax device was sent all possible 3 character commands and a number of 4 character commands, to see what it responded to.
The most interesting, identifiable and useful commands were implemented as channels above.

Here is a list of other commands, which are know to return some kind of value: ADR (DeviceAddress / Device Number - only used if the devices are linked serially), AMM, CID, CPG, CPL, CP1, CP2, CP3, CP4, CP5, CYC, DIN, DMO, ETH, FH2, FQR, FWV, IAA, IED, IEE, IEM, ILM, IP4, ISL, ITS, KFS, KHS, KTS, LAN (Language), MAC (MAC Address), PAE, PAM, PDA, PDC, PFA, PIN (Power Installed), PLR, PPC, PRL (AC Power Percent, PSF, PSR, PSS, QAC, QMO, QUC, RA1, RA2, RB1, RB2, REL, RH1, RH2, RPR, RSD, SAC, SAL, SAM, SCH, SNM (IP Broadcast Address??), SPS, SRD, SRS, SYS (Operating State), TCP (probably port number - 12345), TI1, TL1, TL3, TND, TNH, TNL, TP1, TP2, TP3, TV0, TV1, TYP (Type?), UA2, UB2, UGD, UI1, UI2, UI3, ULH, ULL, UMX, UM1, UM2, UM3, UPD, UZK, VCM

> Valid commands which returned a null/empty value during testing: FFK, FRT, GCP, ITN, PLD, PLE, PLF, PLS, PPO, TV2, VLE, VLI, VLO

Reviewer: The "Full Example" section is missing with examples of .items and .things files.

Author: I don't find any "Full Example" section in the developer guide. I've always used the UI and haven't had a need for .items & .things files. Must this really be documented? If so, is there a way to generate such example data?

Reviewer: There are many users who use textual configuration. That's why we insist on adding these examples. A stub of the section should've been generated when you created the binding skeleton. See https://github.com/openhab/openhab-core/blob/main/tools/archetype/binding/src/main/resources/archetype-resources/README.md at the bottom. You can of course take a peak at the other binding's readmes.

Author: Added "Full Example" section to README.md

# SolarMax Binding

This binding supports SolarMax PV inverters.

## Supported Things

> The SolarMax MT Series is support. (tested with 8MT2 devices)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This binding only has a single `inverter` thing that can be added manually.
The SolarMax MT Series is supported (tested with 8MT2 devices).
```

## Discovery

Auto-discovery is currently not available.

## Thing Configuration

> The IP address and port number (default 12345) of the device needs to be configured.

Reviewer 2: Can you add the parameters to a table list like other bindings please? Same table that the channels are listed in.... They are: host portNumber refreshInterval, note that they are the camelCase versions that the textual people will need to know.

```
############################## openHAB SolarMax Binding #############################

# The IP address or hostname of the SolarMax device
#host=192.168.1.151|SolarMax1

# The port number configured on the SolarMax device
# Default is 12345
#portNumber=12345

# The refresh interval (in seconds) 
# Default is 15 
#refreshInterval=15
```

## Channels

| channel                  | type  | description                                            |
| ------------------------ | ----- | ------------------------------------------------------ |

> | LastUpdated              | Point | When was the data last read from the device            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| lastUpdated              | DateTime | Time when data was last read from the device.            |
```
Please use the correct channel ID from the thing-type.xml file so that people who use textual config get the 100% correct channel name to use. Note it is not a point, but the type of channel that you have written in the already mentioned xml file. Please do for the rest of this list.

| OperatingHours           | Point | Operating Hours since recording began in H             |
| EnergyGeneratedYesterday | Point | Energy Generated Yesterday in wH                       |
| EnergyGeneratedLastMonth | Point | Energy Generated Last Month in wH                      |
| EnergyGeneratedLastYear  | Point | Energy Generated Last Year in wH                       |
| EnergyGeneratedThisMonth | Point | Energy Generated This Month in wH                      |
| EnergyGeneratedThisYear  | Point | Energy Generated This Year in wH                       |
| Current Power Generated  | Point | Power currently being generated in w                   |
| AcFrequency              | Point | AcFrequency in Hz                                      |
| AcPhase1Voltage          | Point | Ac Phase1 Voltage in V                                 |
| AcPhase2Voltage          | Point | Ac Phase2 Voltage in V                                 |
| AcPhase3Voltage          | Point | Ac Phase3 Voltage in V                                 |
| HeatSinkTemperature      | Point | Heat Sink Temperature in degrees celcius               |

### SolarMax Commands

> During the implementation the SolarMax device was sent all possible 3 character commands and a number of 4 character commands, to see what it responded to. The most interesting, identifiable and useful commands were implemented as channels above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the implementation the SolarMax device was sent all possible 3 character commands and a number of 4 character commands, to see what it responded to.
The most interesting, identifiable and useful commands were implemented as channels above.
```

Please put all sentences on their own line, this makes things easier when people change a single line.

Here is a list of other commands, which are know to return some kind of value: ADR (DeviceAddress / Device Number - only used if the devices are linked serially), AMM, CID, CPG, CPL, CP1, CP2, CP3, CP4, CP5, CYC, DIN, DMO, ETH, FH2, FQR, FWV, IAA, IED, IEE, IEM, ILM, IP4, ISL, ITS, KFS, KHS, KTS, LAN (Language), MAC (MAC Address), PAE, PAM, PDA, PDC, PFA, PIN (Power Installed), PLR, PPC, PRL (AC Power Percent, PSF, PSR, PSS, QAC, QMO, QUC, RA1, RA2, RB1, RB2, REL, RH1, RH2, RPR, RSD, SAC, SAL, SAM, SCH, SNM (IP Broadcast Address??), SPS, SRD, SRS, SYS (Operating State), TCP (probably port number - 12345), TI1, TL1, TL3, TND, TNH, TNL, TP1, TP2, TP3, TV0, TV1, TYP (Type?), UA2, UB2, UGD, UI1, UI2, UI3, ULH, ULL, UMX, UM1, UM2, UM3, UPD, UZK, VCM

Valid commands which returned a null/empty value during testing: FFK, FRT, GCP, ITN, PLD, PLE, PLF, PLS, PPO, TV2, VLE, VLI, VLO

## Full Example

> Example Thing Configuration

Reviewer 2: This is not the intended use of this section, as historically it had the contents for things, items and sitemap files. If you don't use textual config, I would remove this section and just make sure the sections above are all case sensitive correct and documented so that an advanced textual person can work it out from your information.
